# Chaincode Lifecycle

There are four stages in the setup of a chaincode in fabric 2.x

1. Chaincode Development
   - Spesifications
   - Coding
   - Package
2. Installation
   - Orgs _install_ the chaincode
3. Approval
   - Organizations _approve_ the Chaincode parameters
4. Committing
   - One of the **Org Admin** commits

## Chaincode Development & Installation

Smart contact is the specifications of the transactions defined on a blockchain network. These spesifications includes;

- Transaction Interfaces
- Busines Rules
- Workflow Logic

- Chaincode **implements** Smart Contract. **Actually implements one or more**.

### Development Flow

Once the smart contract have been agreed upon, developer from one organization can pick up the specification and implement the chaincode.

After implementing the chaincode they can package it and put it in a shared repository. Organizations that have decided to use the shared code can access this repository, so admins from org sharing the court will pick up the package from the repository and install it on the peers in their respective organizations.

Let's say there is an organization that would like to create their own chaincode implementation from these specifications. Developer from that organization can then implement the specification on their own and clear it on specific chaincode implementation.

### Chaincode Package

- Chaincode **code** along with _metadata_.

  ```
  tar.gz
    |
    |__ `code.tar.gz` - Tar file with source code
    |
    |__ `metadata.json` - Metadata JSON file.
  ```

Package Identitiy = LABEL

- Package requires a _Label_
- Organization may decide on a scheme for the _Label_
- Label is saved in the **metadata**

### Package Installation on Peers

- Chaincode installed by the Org admins
- Generates the **Package-ID;** needed for approval
- Package-ID Format
  - `Label: Long String`
- Chaincode Package-ID MUST be consistent within Org
- Each org approves the specific package for their Org
- Package-ID may be different across Orgs
- Not all Orgs need to install
  - Orgs participating in the transactions
  - Orgs that will query the ledgers
  - Chaincode Endorsers MUST install

Admin can use package Id for approval.

---

To manage the lifecycle on tha chaincode in fabric 2.x;

- `peer lifecycle chaincode cmd --flag`
  - `package` - Packages the chaincode `tar-file-path --flags`
    - `p` - Path to chaincode
    - `--label` - Label assigned by admin
    - `-l` - Language, default=golang
    - Package Label Convention
      - Chaincode_Name . ChainCode_Version - Org_specific_version
    - Package Tar file Naming
      - Label.tar.gz - `--label gocc.1.0-1.0`
    1. Setup the environment
       - `. ./env.sh`
       - `mkdir -p $HOME/packages`
       - `CC_LABEL=gocc.1.0-1.0`
       - `CC_PACKAGE_FILE=$HOME/$CC_LABEL.tar.gz`
    2. Create the package
       - `peer lifecycle chaincode package $CC_PACKAGE_FILE`
       - `--label $CC_LABEL`
       - `-p chaincode_example02`
  - `install` - Installs the chaincode to the specified peer
    - `peer lifecycle chaincode install tar-file-path`
    1. Launch the Peer
    2. Install the package to the Peer
    3. Inspect the **Peer filesystem & QueryInstalled**
    ```
    ls -la $CORE_PEER_FILESYSTEMPATH/lifecycle
    ```
  - `queryinstalled` - Lists the installed chaincode on the peer
    - `peer lifecycle chanicode queryinstalled`

## Chaincode Approve & Commit

There are two part of chaincode. The first part is the bytecode and the second part is the set of parameters.

### Bytecode

- Administrator of an organization identifies the packaged bytecode by label and the package is then approved by the administrator for use within the organization.
- This approved package is then installed on the peers within the organization. Approval may be carried out on _committed_ as well as _uncommitted_ CC.

### Parameters

There are six parameters;

- Name
- Version
- Sequence
- Initialization Requirements
- Private Data Collections
- Chaincode Endorsement Policy
- ESCC/VSCC Plugin

The objective behind approval process is to ensure that these parameters match accross these organizations.

> When an organization approves the chaincode, it leads to the creation of a transaction which is recorded in the channels ledger. A chaincode can only be invoked or queried if the current transaction is successful.

### Lifecycle Endorsement Policy (Signature Policy)

- Network members sets up the _Lifecycle Endorsement Policy_.
  - How many approvals are needed?
  - Any specific organization that will MUST endorse?
- Rules are embedded in the Channel **Genesis**.
- Rules may be updated with Channel update transactions

  ***

- Rule=`MAJORITY Endorsement`
  - More than HALF members MUST approve
- Rule=`ANY Endorsement`
  - Only one approval needed for committing the Chaincode
- Signature Policy for flexible expressions
- Initialization required parameter of he chaincode
  - If the _init_ is required or not.
  - Fabric Runtime enforces the requirement.
    - Chaincode CAN NOT be _Invoked/Queried_ unless it is initialized.
    - Committed chaincode can be initialized only _ONCE_.
  - Sequence Number parameter
    - Developer specifies it as part of approval.ş
    - Default sequence number = 1, So the first time a chaincode approved by any organizaton sequence number has to be 1.
    - Running number; incremented with successful commit.
  - Chaincode Endorsement Policy
    - Parameter - NOT the same as lifecycle endorsement policy
    - Expression that describes the Orgs that need to endorse
    - Example:
      - `OR(`BudgetMSP.member`)`
      - `AND(`BudgetMSP.member`, `AcmeMSP.member`)`

### Approve Command

- `peer lifecycle chaincode approveformyorg --flags`
  - `-n -v` - Name of the chaincode & version of CC
  - `-C --channelID` - Channel ID
  - `-sequence` - Sequence number for the CC on the channel (default=1)
  - `--package-id` - ID of the installed package to be approved
  - `--init-required` - Indicates if initialization is required
  - `--peerAddresses` - Endorsing peers
  - `-o` - Orderer address

### Check Commit Readiness

- Shows which orgs have approved

- `peer lifecycle chaincode checkcommitreadiness --flags`
- Provide the _Chaincode parameters_ specified with approveformyorg

### Approve the Chaincode

1. Cleanup & Launch the Orderer

- Execute under the folder `orderer/simple-two-org`
  - `./init.sh all`
  - `./launch.sh`

2. Initialize, Launch, Package, Install the peer

- Execute under the folder `peer/simple-two-org`
  - `./init.sh all`
  - `./launch-package-install.sh` # utility script

3. Approve & Check Readiness

- Execute under the folder `peer/simple-two-org`

  - `CC_PACKAGE_ID=<`Get Package ID using _queryinstalled_`>`

  ```
  peer lifecycle chaincode approveformyorg -n gocc
                                           -v 1.0
                                           -C acmechannel
                                           --sequence 1
                                           --init-required
                                           --package-id $CC_PACKAGE_ID

  peer lifecycle chaincode checkcommitreadiness -n gocc
                                                -v 1.0
                                                -C acmechannel
                                                --sequence 1
                                                --init-required
  ```

### Commit the Chaincode

- `peer lifecycle chaincode  commit --flags`
  - `-n -v` - Name of the cc & versino
  - `-C --channelID`
  - `--sequence`
  - `--init-required`
  - `--peerAddress` - Endorsing Peers
  - `-o`

1. Execute commit
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode commit -n gocc -v 1.0 -C acmechannel --sequence 1 --init-required`
2. Check if CC committed
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode querycommitted -n gocc -v 1.0 -C acmechannel`

> Chaincode commit will require a next sequence number.

## Invoke & Query on Chaincode

Once the chaincode has committed, applications may interact with it using the three interfaces exposed by the chaincode. These are;

1. Init Interface
2. Query Interface
   - `query` command is executed on the local peer. The local peer reads state of the chaincode from the local ledger and send it back as a response to the peer binary.
3. Invoke Interface
   - `invoke` - The peer binary creates the transaction proposal and sends it out to the endorsing peers. Endorsing peers similar to execution of the chaincode, endorses the transaction and send it back to the peer binary.
   - Then peer binary turns out the endorsed binary to the orderer. Orderer creates the block and delivers it to the various peers in the network.

If the chaincode was committed with the `--init-required` parameter, then it must be executed before a quarter to the query or to invoke interface. If query or invoke are executed before the initialization, **transaction will error out**.

Testing of the chaincode involves execution of the interfaces exposed by the chaincode implementation using the peer binary. For this purpose, the peer chaincode query or invoke commands are used.

> Peer lifecycle of chaincode command does not have the query or the invoke option.

> Before the chaincode may be queried and involved has to be initialized.

### Commands

- `peer chaincode invoke --isInit` it requires some flags
  - `-n` - Name of the chaincode
  - `-C` - Channel
  - `-c` - Init arguments
- For invoking the chaincode function, you'll use the `peer chaincode invoke` without `--isInit` with the same flags.

  ***

- `peer chaincode query`
  - `-n`, `-C`, `-c`

---

#### Difference Between Query & Invoke

- **Query**
  - Executed on **local** peer.
  - Reads the state from local.
    - **NO** state changes.
    - **NO** transaction recorded.
  ***
- **Invoke**
  - Chaincode simulated on **endorsers**.
  - Executes the transaction.
    - May lead to state changes.
    - Transaction recorded.

---

#### Requirements

- Initialize the Orderer & launch it.
- Initialize the Peers & launch it.
- Install & Instantiate the chaincode_example02

  ***

1. Init the chaincode

   - `peer chaincode invoke --isInit -n gocc -C acmechannel -c '{"Args":["init","a","100","b","200"]}'`

2. Query the chaincode

   - `peer chaincode query -C acmechannel -n gocc -c '{"Args":["query","a"]}'`

3. Invoke the chaincode
   - `peer chaincode invoke -C acmechannel -n gocc -c '{"Args":["invoke","a","b","10"]}'`

## Upgrade Chaincode

A local bytecode update within an organization is not considered as an upgrade of the chaincode.

The idea here is that if an organization is managing its own implementation of the committed chaincode, then they can change the code within that implementation any time without requiring the approval from membbers of other organizations.

Only the admin of the organizations has to approve and this approval is recorded at the organization level.

> The chaincode parameters associated with the committed chaincode must be provided as part of the admin's approval for the updated bytecode. So key point to here is that kind of a local change to the organization specific implementation of the chaincode is not considered as a chaincode upgrade.

---

- The admin of the organizations will require the chaincode to be packaged and installed in the organization's peers.
- Current parameters used for the approval.
- Next sequence used for the approval transaction.
- Chaincode does NOT require re-installation of the bytecode.
- Org Admin approves:
  - Existing installed package
  - New set of parameters
  - Next sequence

### Parameters

- **Name** - No change
- **Version** - May change
- **Sequence** - Will change
- Rest of them **depends on CC**.

When you execute `approveformyorg` & `commit` commands, sometime it doesn't work if you don't provide `--peerAddressses $CORE_PEER_ADDRESSES`.

### Update the Chaincode Locally

1. Create the package with new `--label`
2. Install the chaincode
3. Approve the new _Package ID_ (Sequence does not change)

---

1. Setup the Label
   - `CC_LABEL=gocc.1.0-2.0`
2. Generate the package
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode package $HOME/packages/$CC_LABEL.tar.gz --label $CC_LABEL -p chaincode_example02`
3. Install the package
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode install $HOME/packages/$CC_LABEL.tar.gz`
4. Get the package ID
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode queryinstalled`
5. Set id from 4th.
   - `CC_PACKAGE_ID=gocc.1.0-2.0:bcabff000e5a83ab1136309957cecd5bac200dab479845124dcbdf61706e47bc`
6. Approve the new package
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode approveformyorg -n gocc -v 1.0 -C acmechannel --sequence 1 --init-required --package-id $CC_PACKAGE_ID --peerAddresses $CORE_PEER_ADDRESS`

## Upgrade the Chaincode

1. Create the package with new `--label`
2. Install the chaincode package
3. Approve the new PackageID (Sequence INCREMENTED)

---

1. Set up the Label [name = gocc version = 2.0 Org specific version = 3.0]
   - `CC_LABEL=gocc.2.0-3.0`
2. Generate the package
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode package $HOME/packages/$CC_LABEL.tar.gz --label $CC_LABEL -p chaincode_example02`
3. Install the package
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode install $HOME/packages/$CC_LABEL.tar.gz`
4. Get the package ID
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode queryinstalled`
5. Set id from 4th.
   - `CC_PACKAGE_ID=gocc.2.0-3.0:48440424d79ae18c790e790d8241f254593ab552fa6b0dddf4c63fc40af4ad08`
6. Approve the chaincode
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode approveformyorg -n gocc -v 1.0 -C acmechannel --sequence 2 --package-id $CC_PACKAGE_ID --peerAddresses $CORE_PEER_ADDRESS`
7. Commit the chaincode
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode commit -n gocc -v 1.0 -C acmechannel --sequence 2 --peerAddresses $CORE_PEER_ADDRESS`
8. Check committed
   - `peer lifecycle chaincode querycommitted -n gocc -C acmechannel`
